now around 85% of Palestinians in the
Gaza Strip have been displaced since the
War Began ammed bam is spokesman for the
Norwegian Refugee Council and joins us
now from Aman in Jordan good to have you
with us can you tell us what has been
the impact of 100 days of War as far as
you've seen it in
Gaza good morning um the impact is
obviously out there for all to see the
Norwegian Refugee Council and a Oran
ation that operates on the ground that
has operated in Gaza for over 15 years
16 years has of course seen the impact
firsthand through the over 50 people 50
colleagues that we have on the ground
who have experienced loss grief
displacement and of course fear um their
children who can't have a full night of
sleep or 100 days now they can't have a
full meal for 100 days and they can't
have a clean drink of water for 100 days
uh I think what we have seen uh over
these you know this um very uh you know
dark moment reminds us that Gaza has
been made unlivable for um you know for
a military reasons for which civilians
are paying the price and sadly we are
here 100 days after repeating the same
thing saying the same thing and you know
sending out the same appeals to stop the
bloodshed
now when you look at the the past 100
days and you look at the the amount of
Aid that's been getting in give us an
idea of just how far how far it falls
short of what is needed given as you say
the conditions within the Gaza Strip are
unli unlivable without a clean hot
without a hot meal without clean
drinking water and in many cases without
even
shelter I think the answer is the in the
in the numbers we're looking at in 2024
now we're looking at an entire
population um on the brink of starvation
and famine this should have never come
down to this you should we should have
never come to you know a a green figure
like that uh 2.3 million people can't U
you know don't know where the next
meeter is going to come from the
Norwegian Refugee Council and other
organizations are bringing in a which is
nowhere near enough we're hardly able to
operate in these little pockets tiny
Poets of shelters of areas where people
are being told to uh you know to flee to
and then go back to the areas where they
have been and of course the Israeli
attacks have turned the entire of the
Gaza Strip into this um you know game of
of uh you know table tennis almost ping
ponging people around around the Gaza
Strip as if they are objects they're not
as if they're not humans and I think
that has to stop as well I think what is
most disappointing is with all the
rhetoric you know with all the hopeful
rhetoric that we have heard with all the
promises that we have heard about more
Aid that will come in on the ground we
are still seeing these difficulties with
you know with the bureaucracy with the
with the scale of of insufficient Aid uh
that is coming in and in the end it's
civilians that are suffering it's
children that are suffering with you
know contagious diseases uh lack of food
lack of fuel and lack of water the
Norwegian Refugee Council has uh just in
the past couple of months said that the
pulverizing of Gaza ranks amongst the
worst assaults on any civilian
population in our time what do you make
of the international response to this
war on
Gaza it has been disappointing and we
have been disappointed at the Norwegian
Refugee Council despite our constant
know consistent appealing uh constant um
you know calls for for a ceasefire I
think the answer has still not come
uh the answer for civilians has not come
the answer of of you know a complete um
suspension of
hostilities and uh of course the return
of people displaced we are talking now
about you know almost everybody in Gaza
being displaced some of them have been
displaced twice three
times and and you know all these CS have
been unheeded Israel continues its
boming from from all sides and now we've
heard you know even in MO for example
where people have been told to go now
they have been told you know that you
know Israel continue its operations in
alasi where they have been asked to go
and now they have to go back to areas
where it has asked people to leave it's
so confusing for people people have lost
communication with their family members
and I have teams you know we have teams
NRC teams on the ground have lost
communication with their own people and
with their own colleagues we have to
stop this and Israel has to stop these
attacks and we have to to reach a
ceasefire as soon as possible are you
concerned that when the war does
eventually come to an end that if people
are able to leave the Gaza Strip that
they will in large numbers and we'll see
a mass displacement of a
population what we have been saying from
from the Geto really is that when Israel
forcibly transfers people it Bears
responsibility it violates international
law and it be's responsibility for the
return of these people people have
choice and they have been stripped of
that choice they have been stripped of
that voluntary movement they are now
going to places they don't want to go to
so what we need to see is the opposite
is for people to go back home it's for
people to return and for Gaza to be made
livable again and that you know that is
responsibility of not just the
International Community and of course
Israel as the occupier which should
guarantee the well-being of the people
we have been very clear n compromising
about that there cannot be any
involuntary movement for people wherever
that is if if someone you know makes the
choice that is up to them but of course
they should not make that choice out of
being forced to leave home when they
don't want to with their children and
with their family ammed Bam from the
Norwegian Refugee Council many thanks
for talking to
us thank okay